feat: Implement modified cyclomatic complexity (#18896)
eslint/eslint: docs/src/rules/complexity.md

## Options

This rule has a number or object option:

* `"max"` (default `20`) enforces a maximum complexity

* `"modifiedComplexity": true` use the modified complexity model

### max

Customize the threshold with the `max` property.

```json
"complexity": ["error", { "max": 2 }]
```

**Deprecated:** the object property `maximum` is deprecated. Please use the property `max` instead.

Or use the shorthand syntax:

```json
"complexity": ["error", 2]
```

> ### modifiedComplexity

Reviewer: I'm curious if there are other forms of cyclomatic complexity, too?

If so, it might be better to make this a string option like `form: "modified"` vs `form: "mccabe"` to allow for future expansion?

Author: Also good question. There seem to be at least three common implementations, in addition to the classic one. From [Understand's docs](https://support.scitools.com/support/solutions/articles/70000582297-understanding-mccabe-cyclomatic-complexity):

> **Modified Cyclomatic Complexity**: Each decision in a multi-decision structure statement (switch in C/C++) is not counted and instead the entire structure counts as 1
> **Strict Cyclomatic Complexity**: Logical ANDs and ORs in conditional expressions also add 1 to the complexity for each of their occurrences.
i.e. The statement if (a && b || c) would have a Cyclomatic of 1 but a Strict Cyclomatic of 3
> **Essential Complexity**: Iteratively replaces all well structured control structures with a single statement. Structures such as if-then-else and while loops are considered well structured.

I've also come across these in other sources, although the the ones besides the Modified Complexity are even less common. I don't have a strong opinion, but I'm slightly leaning towards keeping the `modifiedComplexity` option as is and deprecating it in favor of something like `form: "..."` if/when we want to support more models.

Reviewer: I'm generally not a fan of adding things if we think there's a reasonable chance we'll need to deprecate it in the future. Deprecations cause a lot confusion and we end up needing to support more than one way of doing things for a while, which gets messy. So given that there are other forms, my vote is to go with `form`.

Author: Yes, I agree with the downsides of a potential deprecation. I was just trying to not over-engineer upfront. Switched to using `variant`. I like that word better than `form` in this context, and these metrics are often referred to as "variations" of (the classic) cyclomatic complexity.

Reviewer: Works for me.

## Options

This rule has a number or object option:

* `"max"` (default: `20`) enforces a maximum complexity

> * `"variant": "classic|modified"` (default: `"classic"`) cyclomatic complexity variant to use

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `"variant": "classic" | "modified"` (default: `"classic"`) cyclomatic complexity variant to use
```

### max

Customize the threshold with the `max` property.

```json
"complexity": ["error", { "max": 2 }]
```

**Deprecated:** the object property `maximum` is deprecated. Please use the property `max` instead.

Or use the shorthand syntax:

```json
"complexity": ["error", 2]
```

### variant

Cyclomatic complexity variant to use:

* `"classic"` (default) - Classic McCabe cyclomatic complexity
* `"modified"` - Modified cyclomatic complexity

_Modified cyclomatic complexity_ is the same as the classic cyclomatic complexity, but each `switch` statement only increases the complexity value by `1`, regardless of how many `case` statements it contains.

> Examples of **correct** code for this rule with the `{ "max": 2, "variant": "modified" }` option:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Examples of **correct** code for this rule with the `{ "max": 3, "variant": "modified" }` option:
```

::: correct

```js
/*eslint complexity: ["error", {"max": 3, "variant": "modified"}]*/

> function a(x) {     // this function has modified complexity = 1
>     switch (x) {    // this whole switch statement has modified complexity = 1
>         case 1:
>             1;
>             break;
>         case 2:
>             2;
>             break;
>         case 3:
>             if (x === 'foo') {  // this if block has modified complexity = 1
>                 3;
>             }
>             break;
>         default:
>             4;
>     }
> }

Reviewer 2: This might be confusing as the whole switch statement has complexity 2 and the whole function has complexity 3 due to their contents.

Maybe something like this?

```suggestion
function a(x) {     // initial modified complexity is 1
    switch (x) {    // switch statement increases modified complexity by 1
        case 1:
            1;
            break;
        case 2:
            2;
            break;
        case 3:
            if (x === 'foo') {  // if block increases modified complexity by 1
                3;
            }
            break;
        default:
            4;
    }
}
```

Author: I was just following the pattern from previous examples, but I agree here.
